=What is PhidgetsNative
This library is a set of classes for use with the excellent USB sensing and 
controller devices available for sale on phidgets.com. If you're a ruby programmer
and need to interface your code with meat-space concerns, these devices (and this
library) are what you need. 

==What's a Phidget?
Phidgets are well supported on almost any operating system, and require practically
no knowledge of electrical engineering or digital circuitry. Each device is a stand-
alone "plug and play" building block that works on it's own , or in conjunction
with other phidgets.

You can browse the phidget product catalog on {www.phidgets.com}[http://www.phidgets.com].

==Tested Environments
As of this writing, this gem is stable, and actively tested on:
* x86_64 on OS X
* x86_64 on Linux
* armv6l on Linux

Presumably most other UNIX variants will work just fine. Probably win32/win64 
will not.

==Supported Devices
As of the most recent version of this library, we support the following phidgets:
* Phidget Spatial
* Phidget GPS
* Phidget Interface Kit
* Phidget Advanced Servo
If you have a phidget that's not on the compatibility list, either buy me a copy 
of the phidget you need support for, or check out the existing modules for a 
reference in setting up your own class, and push your changes to my repo. Most 
of the difficult work is done, and you'll find plenty of stubs to work with for 
nearly all the available phidgets.

=Why not Phidgets-FFI?
Though encompassing, Phidgets-FFI is seemingly quite buggy, and a bit slow. Particularly
with Garbage collection turned on. I think that the threading model of the Phidgets
C API is simply incompatible with the design of the ruby-ffi library. Additionally,
running the ffi gem on arm environments is outright unusable.

Caveats aside, the Phidgets-FFI library interfaces are elegant and well thought-out, 
and this library's interfaces (and even this README) are heavily influenced by 
them. Converting your existing code base to use this library shouldn't be too 
difficult.

==Differences with Phidgets-FFI
The Phidgets-FFI library has a number of methods which accept blocks. This library
has none. Maybe that will change in the future.

There are currently no plans to support event-driven interfaces. Though this was
an excellent feature of the ffi library, it adds a significant degree of complexity
to a stable implementation of this library. Indeed, most of the stability issues
arise when attempting to use these features in the ffi implementation.

Additionally, the phidgets-ffi implementation is a little strange with it's support
of device disconnects and reconnects. Here in the 'native' implementation, once
a device object is created, it stays 'active' regardless of whether the device
is attached. If the device is disconnected and reconnected, your phidget object
will automatically re-register its handlers with the device, and continue to 
function as if the device were never disconnected to begin with. Keep in mind that
any attributes relating to the device's capabilities (mostly those in the 
PhidgetsNative::Device class, though there are things like the axial extents in the 
spatial object) will be 'cached' from the previous connection. "State" attributes
(such as the spatial's accelerometer output) will return nil or 0.

In practice, if you need an event-driven model for your code, you can almost certainly
get by using a ruby thread with a polling loop, like so:

  is_fixed_last = false 
  @poller = Thread.new(PhidgetsNative::GPS(12345)) do |gps| 
    gps.wait_for_attachment(10000)

    begin
      on_fixed_change(gps.is_fixed) if is_fixed_last != gps.is_fixed
      is_fixed_last = gps.is_fixed?
    end while sleep(0.1) 
  end

  # Carry on with the rest of your code here

I'm fairly certain that until ruby supports actual kernel-based threads, this is 
the best you can reasonably do. Maybe we'll emulate the ffi library in this capacity
at some point in the future, if there's a demand to do so.

=Getting Started
First, we need to set up the proper environment and get the necessary files off 
the Phidgets website. Visit the drivers section at www.phidgets.com and get the 
latest Phidget driver for your system. 

We also recommend that you read the following reference materials:
* {General Phidget Programming}[http://www.phidgets.com/docs/General_Phidget_Programming]
* The {User Guide}[http://www.phidgets.com/docs/Category:UserGuide] for your device
* {RubyDoc API Documentation}[http://rubydoc.info/github/brighton36/phidgets_native/master/frames]
* {Ruby code samples}[https://github.com/brighton36/phidgets_native/tree/master/examples]

The RubyDoc API manual contains calls and events for every type of Phidget and 
can be used as a reference. You can find a high level discussion about programming 
with Phidgets in general on the General Phidget Programming page. 
The user guide for your device also contains an API section that describes 
limitations, defaults, and implementation details specific to your Phidget. 

==Installing the phidgets_native gem
To install:
  gem install phidgets_native

phidgets_native is very self contained. There's no dependencies on other ruby 
gems or non-standard libraries. However, in order to compile this gem, you'll
need a suitable build environment for your system (clang on OSX or gcc on Linux),
and the aforementioned phidgets driver.

==Coding for your Phidget
Before you can use the Phidget, you must include a reference to the phidgets_native 
gem:
  require "rubygems"
  require "phidgets_native"

Afterwards, Phidgets can be instantiated by creating the appropriate device class 
object, with the device serial number passed to its constructor. At the moment, 
only the 'local' devices are supported. If there's enough interest (or contributors)
I may add support for the 'remote' protocols which allow you to open a device
via its computer's IP address.

  spatial = PhidgetsNative::Spatial.new 54321

The object name for any type of Phidget is listed in the API manual. Every type 
of Phidget also inherits functionality from the Phidget base class (Which cannot
be instantiated by itself directly). 

If you don't know the serial number of the device you're looking for, you can 
use the Phidget.all method to return an array of the currently connected Phidgets
and/or you can simply run the included list_all.rb example.

One important thing to remember is that when working with Phidgets, a local connection 
will reserve the device until closed. This prevents any other instances from 
retrieving data from the Phidget, including other programs. 

==Standard accessors
All devices support the accessors defined in the PhidgetsNative::Device class from which
they inherit. 

==A note about device availability
Simply calling the constructor does not guarantee you can use the Phidget 
immediately. The constructor merely sets up the Phidget handlers and event hooks,
but does not block the interpreter while it waits for the device to register. 
For most people, you'll want immediate access to the phidget after the class has
been instantiated. As such, you'll need to call the wait_for_attachment method
on your new instance in order to start accessing the device properties.

The wait_for_attachment method will block until a connection is made to the 
Phidget or until the provided timeout is exceeded.

  ifkit = PhidgetsNative::InterfaceKit.new 24680
  # halt the program for up 20000 microseconds or until the Phidget is connected:
  ifkit.wait_for_attachment 20000 

Though optional, it's recommended that you call close when you're done using your
phidget or when quitting your program.

  ifkit.close

==Working with Multiple Phidgets
Multiple Phidgets of the same or different types can easily be run inside the 
same program. However, there is seemingly a six-device limit, which is imposed 
by the Phidget API and/or hardware.

==Logging
The phidget api has built in debug logging which can be enabled on a global basis
for all devices. By default, logs are sent to STDOUT, but you can optionally 
pass a path to a text file where output can alternatively be redirected. 
  PhidgetsNative.enable_logging!(:verbose)
  PhidgetsNative.log :info, "My favorite color is chartreuse"
  PhidgetsNative.disable_logging!
Note that you can also use the log method to send your own messages to the logger,
if you think you have something you need to add.

=Changelog
== Version 0.2.1
- Added dual-ratiometric mode features and interfaces to the InterfaceKit

== Version 0.2.0
- First gem release, supporting all api functions of the Spatial, GPS, InterfaceKit, & AdvancedServo phidgets
